okay we're here with James D Eugenio
he's the editor and publisher of
Kennedy's and king.com
we have some audio of Jim Garrison
speaking in 1967 I believe Jim has
listened to it I don't think it's been
heard probably since the 70s it came
from Pacifica Radio archives so Jim's
listen to it you want to give us a
little introduction to this we're a bit
of audio yeah I I think this is either
late 67 or early 68 very early 68 it's
um it's a banquet for the Southern
California broadcaster Association at
the Century Plaza Hotel and I think it
was the LA Free Press who invited
garrison there they had an article about
him on the front page which he refers to
in the talk when he's talking about art
the guy named art that's art cuncun our
contem was the owner and publisher of
the LA free press the la Free Press was
wow look where do you begin with this in
my opinion there were two paradigms of
journalism two peaks of journalism in
the 1960s which nobody has matched since
for a glossy magazine it was Warren
Hinkle's ramparts for a weekly tabloid
it was the LA Free Press they weren't
afraid to go anywhere and this included
supporting Jim garrison garrison was so
harshly attacked in the early part of
the summer of 1967 if you recall it was
by healings worth in Newsweek by James
Phelan in The Saturday Evening Post and
then by Walter Sheridan Ainsworth was
actually infiltrated into Shaw's defense
team falen testified at Shaw's trial
Sheridan was in contact
the CIA and he was getting funding from
the CIA
once that hit most of the media turned
on garrison this of course led to
garrison sort of calling out the media
for being so bad on the JFK case if a
government can lie so blatantly about
something as important at the John F
Kennedy assassination that means that
they can basically get away with murder
he names a very famous article that was
published around this time I think it
was in The Saturday Evening Post but I'm
not sure Tom Braden who was masquerading
as a journalist at that time wrote an
article saying something like the title
was glad to see ia is immoral very few
people knew that Tom Braden was a former
CIA agent okay at you know when that
article was published all right they
certainly knew after it was published
all right
and so garrison mentions that article
this is his beginning to really go head
to head with the Central Intelligence
Agency around this time right
I imagine some the Pacific Archive right
yeah definitely is all right so I urge
everybody listen to this it's kind of
interesting great well thanks a lot for
the introduction then we'll play right
now
this is Leonard Brown like the murders
of the three civil rights workers in
Mississippi and those of Medgar Evers
and mrs. violently you saw the murder of
John F Kennedy in Dallas Texas was and
is in the legal sense crime without
punishment thus it seems in terms of the
crime itself to represent the
prototypical expression of a violent
society but and it's aftermath its
implications range far beyond such a
society's conventional process a
punishing violence we get more violence
this murder permanently marred what we
have called the American Dream staining
ambition and high aspiration with a
tragic serum of futility grow up it
seemed to say and be president son and
be killed by your people
this murder said other things to other
men attorney mark lane for one and Jim
Garrison district attorney in New
Orleans for another to these two lawyers
the formality was broken interrupted in
the freeze-frame moment of the crime
itself like many Americans they were
troubled by the simplicity of the Warren
Commission report which reduced the
whole equation to one man one moment one
madness here in a speech before the
Southern California broadcasters Award
Dinner is Jim Garrison who was
investigations into the murder of
President John F Kennedy have compelled
a closer scrutiny of the abrupt and
savage end of the new frontier era in
American politics I think it's very
intelligent
and they say as you know as the has such
a burning interest in the right of the
people to know art mentioned that I had
a message and curiously enough Bob in a
sense he touched on the message when he
mentioned the magazine article he had in
his hand he showed me a few minutes ago
and it caused me to make some notes
because essentially what my message is
is simply that the government does not
have the right to lie if a government
has a right to lie it has a right to
murder and I can assure you any
government which is able to get away
with a lie will get away with murder
because the name of the situation you
have when a government is allowed to lie
to lie with equanimity is fascism that's
all of this fascism and when you reach
the point as we seem to reach where you
can have magazine articles with women
writing articles such as the government
has a right to lie or I'm glad the CIA
is immoral what you've reached is a
point of acceptability in certain areas
of fascism and I think it's a time to
become concerned because that's what the
Kennedy assassination is all about and
the fraudulent concealment of what
really happened that's what it is all
about to the fact that some degree of
fascism has arrived in our country you
recall that George Santayana said that
those who do not learn from history are
condemned to relive it and if we have
not learned from our experiences before
in during the Second World War
what fascism is then we
and time ourselves will be condemned to
relive the very history that they did
because we are headed in that direction
fascism just to summarize its reflect is
the kind of government you have when the
government although using populist
phrases like Bolton's Arbeit Breton work
is really alienated from the people
fascism is what you have when violence
such as the assassination of a president
becomes acceptable and fascism is what
you have when the fraud perpetrated by
the government and the big lie becomes
acceptable because the government is so
powerful that individuals and even many
publications are afraid to oppose it
fascism is what you have when there is a
question about what happens to the
dissenter the most important thing we
have in our way of life in our form of
government is the fact that the
dissenter is usually able to survive
even when he criticizes the most
powerful men in government but we've
reached a point in recent years perhaps
because of the development of the
industrial warfare machine that
Eisenhower warned about where a major
magazines and major publications
hesitate to criticize the government and
before they take a position test the
wind to see from which waste blowing
truth becomes secondary justice becomes
secondary truth is whatever the
government wants to be released and
justice is whatever the government wants
to happen we have reached that point and
I want to try and give you a few
to show you now what I'm going to say
tonight and I'm going to make it short
because I know that you have a lot of
awards will probably not be liked by
everybody here but if what I said was
liked by everybody here then I wouldn't
be doing it right because I want to say
things to you that are true and when
something is said that is true the one
thing that's predictable is that it will
not be liked by everybody it will be
necessary for me to pick a few bones
with the Great Society these will be
domestic bones so it won't involved of
the war in Vietnam or the use of napalm
one of the human beings but it will
involve the question of whether or not
the government has a right to lie
because our government has been lying to
the people this country now for nearly
four years
you are being fooled every man and woman
in this country is being fooled and
tonight I'm going to tell you who is
responsible now back in the early 30s
when fascism arrived on the scene in
Germany oddly enough it arrived in May
in a way that closely parallels the
arrival here in November of 1963 the
Reichstag fire if you remember was
clearly set by the Nazis but a young
communist was seized and executed for it
and as a result of this everyone was
satisfied and been looked into in the
Nazis and
were able to profit in terms of power
from it this of course is the essential
technique of fascism to satisfy the
people and cause them to think that they
live in the best of all possible worlds
it's not just a fascist technique it's a
totalitarian technique which the Soviet
government perfected many years ago for
example during the years when Stalin was
liquidating his enemies and entrenching
his power there was no mention of an
improv no mention of it in the other
Russian journals except on occasion to
point out what monsters these
individuals who work more often than not
they disappeared without any sign of the
disappearance the best book that I know
of for those of you who would like to
see what happens to a country when the
management begins to think it has a
right to lie and when the management
really thinks it's all right for a
powerful government agency to be proud
of its immorality is George Orwell's
1984 and I commend it to you when it was
written in 1949 it was really written
about Russia but if you read it now
you'll find that you're reading about
Russia and our own government this
should not be so but that's the way it
is because we have reached the point
when many people in our government think
they have the right to lie as a matter
of fact no government has ever existed
since men arrived on earth that was more
important than the truth if our
government has reached a point where the
survival of the government is more
important than the truth then the best
thing that could happen would be for it
to fall and we can start building a new
gun
tomorrow morning out of laws because we
can always build a government but life
is not worth living in a fascist or
totalitarian government unless you fight
it and if the government is mine then
you have to fight it now our government
is lying and I want to give you a few
examples what the United States
government did in the Kennedy
assassination and it was a well-planned
assassination involving a number of
individuals as you will learn I assure
you
what the government did was to practice
two essential actions to conceal the
truth of the assassination one was
concealment of evidence and the other
was destruction of evidence and very
briefly I want to give you some examples
of the technique they used in specific
terms of course I'm not going to speak
about mr. Shaw's case I haven't spoken
about mr. Shaw's case since the day we
charged him in spite of what you may
have read on the other hand I think you
would appreciate some statistics so if
you'll bear with me I'm going to give
you some and I'm going to show you what
your government has done and I'm going
to tell you why now examples of the
destruction of evidence begin with the
burning of the autopsy notes by
commander Humes of course one of the
most important questions the entire
assassination was the question of the
direction of the bullets since everybody
as everybody who has looked into the
assassination knows I think without any
exception the fatal shots were fired
from the front of the president in order
to keep this secret from the people of
the United States the notes of dr. Humes
of the autopsy were burned by dr. Humes
and he was subsequently promoted another
case of spontaneous combustion occurred
when a
a memo requested by the Warren
Commission was accidentally burned while
being thermal faxed this happened the
day after the assassination Washington
the federal agent who interviewed Oswald
in New Orleans gentlemen quickly burned
his notes after the interview and yet he
belongs to an agency whose policy is
never to burn notes the major landmarks
in the grassy knoll area where the
assassination occurred have been
saint-saens have been moved to make it
harder for major was to be made another
interesting example of what the
government has done is to turn your
attention away from the direction
worthy where the assassins came from
that caused you to look into another
spectrum another area I have to explain
to you now before I go into this so that
you understand because I'm about to talk
about political ideology and you don't
know me so I have to tell you that I
certainly don't claim any special merit
in it my political position is pretty
much in the center of the road we need
conservatives obviously for stability
and of course we need we need liberals
too because they give us progress but
one of the one of the problems in this
particular cases is that everybody is
trying to impose their own political
ideology on the assassination for
example friends of mine who are
conservatives can't conceive of anybody
but an extreme liberal killing the
freshmen in friends of mine or liberal
cannot conceive of anything to love an
extreme conservative of course neither
extreme has a monopoly on virtue and by
the same token neither extreme has a
monopoly on murder and it just happens
to be a fact that in this case the
president was murdered by militant
members
of the right-wing the main function of
the Warren Commission and the reason it
was appointed the main function of the
Warren Commission was to conceal the
fact that militant right-wing
individuals had killed the President of
the United States and also to conceal
the fact that individuals connected with
a Central Intelligence Agency were
involved now with this in mind you can
better appreciate that among the items
of evidence destroyed or changed which
is a form of destruction is inaudible
snowball if you were to openly off with
notebook one of the first names and
phone numbers you see it's General Edwin
Walker's name as Walter there has it
phone number now when the United States
government got finished retyping that
name into a memo Walker has become bulky
vol ke now I'm just giving that as an
example to show you how systematically
everything that even touched the right
wing they either eliminate it or conceal
it doesn't mean the general Walker is
necessarily informed but the point is
the United States government was well
aware of where the assassins were
located on the on the political spectrum
and without exception every case where
the trail led to the right the evidence
has been destroyed by the government or
concealed you can see it in 72 years or
71 years but you've got to wait now
here's an example of the kind of
evidence that they they concealed there
is a picture in the east in the it's a
commissioned exhibit five there's a
commissioned picture which shows a car
park at general Walker's house now when
this picture was picked up at the misses
things presumably in the hands of honors
with all those they're real questions
about that the license number on the car
was played there's no question about
that
but by the time they printed the picture
in the Commission exhibits a large hole
that been punched of the license number
so if you want to go to your library and
look up commissioned exhibit number five
you see a car park the general Walker's
house in which the trunk appears to have
exploded because someone punched the
hole in it but this is just part of the
systematic pattern again and again for
example one of these one of the books
which you cannot see you cannot look at
is called Nazis and fascists of today
publicans and parents the the French
version is available to you except the
government lost all those copies they
just don't have the English version you
cannot see for many years they just
don't want you to see again another form
of destruction which has occurred and I
can't say that the government has done
this all I can say is that someone has
is key witnesses the fact that key
witnesses are being destroyed Nancy
Mooney was killed because she knew who
was visiting Jack Ruby at his office in
the Carousel Club and Hank Killian was
killed too because he knew of the
connection between Jack Ruby and Lee
Oswald incidentally I might add a
connection which was was so easy to
establish that no one can take any
credit for it there simply is no
question about the fact that there was a
very close relationship between the odds
with and Jack Ruby for well over a year
instances of concealment of evidence by
the United States government again
another example of how your government
thinks
it has a right to lie to you the autopsy
photos now conceal for nearly four years
22 color pictures 18 black and white 11
x-rays all concealed now remember the
main questions
the burning question was from how many
directions was the president sought and
where was he hit and where did the fatal
shot come from and which shot was the
fatal shot yet even today you cannot see
the autopsy photographs and the reason
you cannot see them is because they
would show that the president was shot
from the front as well as the back and
he would show that the fatal shot came
from the front
now the witnesses in the grassy knoll
area virtually every one of them heard
the shots coming from the grassy knoll
vicinity and at least one has seen the
one of the individuals behind the
stone-pits behind a stone wall these
people were not called for the Warren
Commission they were not called with a
Warren Commission because they would
have testified about the shots coming
from the grassy knoll area and you're
not supposed to know that no I know
where you told that no firing no
examination was made of the
mannlicher-carcano
which Oswald supposedly fired but never
did no examination was made to determine
whether it was fire they couldn't make
an examination of it because the
possibility it may not have been fired
and the reason this position was taken
was because of their awareness that he
was not involved in the shooting oz was
prints his fingerprints were not on the
rifle although the inference was given
that they were Oswald's fingerprints
were not on the Smith & Wesson 38 that
killed Tippin although the inference has
been created that they
remember supposedly Oswald who did not
kill tip supposedly he ran unloading
bullet City the cartridges as he ran and
putting in new bullets then in the Texas
theater he stood up and yelled this is
if and supposedly there was a big
struggle he tried to shoot an officer
and I got the gun from him well when
that gun was examined there was not a
fingerprint on it it had been wiped
clean and the reason it has been wiped
clean
azad will never held it in his hands
another gratuitous contribution to the
to the scenario for the dallas police
force and you haven't been told unless
you've made a hobby of some people have
of looking deeply into it that the
nitrate test indicated that leon was
enough prior to rifle that day there's
no question about this this became so
clear that the warren commission was
forced to take this standard test which
has accepted all of the world and tried
it developed a new position that there
was question about the allegations of
PFC Eugene Dinkins perhaps my favorite
concealed file bothered me for some time
until we heard from an individual who
was in PFC Eugene Dinkins outfit in
Germany now the allegations of PFC
Dayton is one of the files that you
cannot see for many years and the reason
you cannot see it is that in late 1962
and early 1963 PFC Eugene Dinkin was
making the incredible allegation that he
was confident the President Kennedy
would be assassinated by members of the
militant right-wing now for some reason
someone in the government is sensitive
about that and who cannot see again you
find that in the permanent carousel
cards which Jack Ruby had was about
which contained some of this closer
friends and in his notes but in his
notes which were in his car one of the
addresses he had behind the name Tom
Hill was the home address of Robert
wells of the John Birch Society now let
me make this point that doesn't mean
that the John Birch Society is involved
because they're not there's no group
like that involved but point is since it
does indicate a certain degree of
right-wing orientation on Jack Ruby's
part no mention is made to you that that
address behind Tom Hill's name is the
home address in Massachusetts of Robert
Welch similarly when the phone calls
from Earl Ruby up in Detroit are
indicated they do not tell you how many
times Earl Ruby called the James world's
Candy Company in Massachusetts
suddenly they become very casual about
how many calls are made because again
there's an inference of militant
right-wing orientation and they want to
conceal this from you again you have
concealed the file entitled Leonardi
novels accept information about the u2
the reason you can't see that for many
years is because you will then realize
that Leon who was working for the United
States government as a CIA employee and
they don't want you to know that again
the Warren Commission investigator is an
attorney for the rather the attorneys
for the Warren Commission knew when they
saw 5:44 camp printed on the pamphlets
which Oswald supposedly a communist was
giving out when they saw 5:44 camp they
knew immediately who was at 5:44 camp
this building housed the most
conservative reactionary the strongest
anti-communist in the
city of New Orleans guide banister into
his office
Sergio achacha and David Ferrie who did
no Wasel very well from whose office
they operated but they treated that on
per song as if it had no significance at
all because again they did not want you
to know that President Kennedy was
killed as a result of a militant
right-wing front now again you are being
fooled
zil did not fire a gun he did not shoot
anybody and the United States government
has to know it that cannot possibly be
any question in their minds and if there
remains anyone in this audience who
thinks that the members of the Warren
Commission have any innocence level and
this regard let me just call to your
attention that long before they ceased
functioning on the Warren Commission
long before that the burning question
was from how many directions to the
shots come and where was the president
hit and nevertheless not a single member
of the 7th not one not one member of the
Warren Commission looked at the
photographs of the autopsy or looked at
the x-ray pictures because they knew
what they would see they knew the
President had been shot from the front
and they did not want to lose their
innocence there is no other possible
explanation for that now despite the
concealment and a destruction of
evidence there are examples of how the
Warren Commission conclusion is
fraudulent within the Warren Commission
itself and I'm just going to give you a
few examples here very briefly but if
you want to know them down with a pencil
you can go look at the at the Warren
Commission exhibits in your library and
I think after you look at them you'll
realize that the conclusion
untrue for example if you look at
Commission exhibit 392 you'll see that
dr. McClellan has indicated the cause of
death as a gunshot wound of the temple
Commission exhibit 392 by the time they
realized it was out apparently it was
too late
so they colored the paper very dark so
it's a little hard for you to read but
if you look close you'll see it's a
gunshot wound to the temple and of
course unless they've changed it in the
meanwhile the Book Depository used to be
behind where the president was again the
Warren Commission indicated to you and
to the American people that Oswald must
have learned Russian on his bunk at
night and studying because he was such a
Marxist there's such a calmness he want
to get over to Russia and yet a slip of
the tongue occurred during the testimony
of commander Folsom and if you look at
the Folsom exhibit the Folsom testimony
rather in the testimony section you'll
find commander Folsom referring to our
VLEs grade in armed forces Russian
examination PRT 21 practical Russian
test 21 United States Army examination
he was taught Russian by the United
States government the same government
which employed him the same government
which ultimately framed him because this
government believes this all right to
tell lies you recall that Oswald is
supposed to have been a Russian defector
and yet one of his first jobs on his
return from Russia was a Jagger Stover
tiles which is a company which did high
level high security work for the United
States government including photography
and special kind of map work and again
in 1963 in summer 63 in New Orleans when
this communist effect
sought a passport he got one in 24 hours
now the other individuals who applied on
that day did not get it in 24 hours but
I forgot here's a passport to go to
Europe Spain many other places in 24
hours and as most of you know this is
not possible not to even get a passport
if you are truly a defector now another
example of the Lee Oswald Jack Ruby
relationship
there are many witnesses available and
it's no problem
for any prosecutor who is concerned
about bringing out the truth to develop
eyewitnesses who saw Ruby and nozzle
together not merely in Dallas but in
many other towns that just was not that
hard but if you want to see an example
of the Warren Commission to the South a
few examples I'll give you some places
to look first of all I think many of you
were already familiar with the fact that
Jack Ruby had a business relationship
with Bertha cheek and that Lee zil was
living in the house 1 but Bertha cheeks
sister earlene Roberts at 10:26 North's
back wish list in the rouse the
Commission's interest at all of course
it didn't around the Commission's
interest even when eyewitnesses saw them
together and at the Carousel Club such
as for example the date of November the
10th if you look at Leon was address
book you will see the number fr five
five five nine one this is the phone
number of Kenneth Cody at four five five
five nine one who is Kenneth Tony he's
the uncle of gelcoating
on the police force who in his testimony
before the
- Mason admitted that he's been a very
close friend of Jack movie for many
years for many years again if you look
at all the best book you will see a PE
eight one nine five one you'll see it
several times in volume 16 and oz was a
vegetable PE 8 1 9 5 1 on June the 10th
and June the 11th of 1963 Jack Ruby
called that number twice it's the
numbered Fort Worth when Jack will be
called that number he was in New Orleans
and Oswald was in the wolves now there
are not a great many people in this room
but I doubt if there's anybody in this
room that has their address book any
numbers which I have in mind and yet
this was not a matter of curiosity to
the Commission at all and the reason it
was not a curiosity I'm sure is that
they were very well aware very well
aware of the fact that there was indeed
a close relationship between Lee Oswald
and Jack Ruby
it just isn't even close they had to
know it so when they pretended that ruby
did not know art and pretended to be
Kelvin because it did not want Jackie
Kennedy to come down testify in court
your government was lying to you again
just as they lie to you now when Ramsey
Clark announces that we have charged an
innocent man surely a statement which
has never been made in history by an
attorney general of the United States
support in charge of the the very
division is supposed to be concerned
about government attempting to torpedo
and advance the state's case when he
does that and when the Chief Justice of
the United States announces from Tokyo
that he's seen nothing new in our case I
don't know what he was doing in Tokyo
presumably
inspecting the seventh Fleet but
whatever he was doing
he has to know that he will never know
what our case is about until we come in
court and he was performing a function
for whom was he performing a function
for moon was Ramsey Clark performing who
is responsible for the continued
obstruction to the first honest
investigation that this country's had
into the assassination Harry Truman had
a sign on his desk when he was president
which says the buck stops here who
appointed the Warren Commission who was
aware that there was a CIA problem and
caused the seven-man Commission to be
composed of the former head of the CIA
Allen Dulles the best friend the CIA has
in the Senate Senator Richard Russell
the best friend that the CIA has in the
house congressman Gerald Ford and the
former head of the OSS out of which CIA
group John J McCloy
a commission waited in advance by
defenders of the CIA who appointed
Ramsey Clark who's done his best to
torpedo the investigation the case who
controls the CIA who controls the FBI
who controls the archives where this
evidence is locked up for so long that
it is unlikely that there is anybody in
this room that will be alive when it's
released this is really your property
and the property of the people in this
country who has the arrogance in the
brass to prevent the people in this
country from seeing that evidence who
indeed the one man who has profited most
from the assassination your friendly
President Lyndon Johnson and don't be
fooled don't be fooled by the humility
and the picking up of [ __ ] don't be
fooled by that the question is when do
we get to see the evidence about the
murder of John Kennedy that's the
question and he's the man who's
responsible for hiding it I've leaned
over backwards for months now while our
phones have been monitored while the
government has done everything it could
to torpedo with the investigation
because they know we stumbled on it and
I claim no virtue we are not great
investigators it was largely luck we
stumbled on but we did stumble and we do
know what happens and it won't even be
close there won't be any acquittal if we
can get these people to time if we can
get on the trial if we can prevent the
US government from blowing up our case
or finding a way to remove me from
office if we get into trial you will
learn what happened to John Kennedy and
who killed it and you will then learn
that you've been living under a
government now for four years which is
concealed evidence and destroyed
evidence and lied to you again and again
and again now I don't say that President
Johnson is involved in the assassination
I have no reason to know that he is but
I do think this I do think that the fact
that he is profited from the
assassination more than any other man
makes it imperative that he's seen that
the evidence is released so that we can
know he's not involved rather than
assuming of course I assumed that the
president of the
is not involved but wouldn't it be nice
to know it wouldn't it be nice to know
that people who backed him for years in
Texas are not involved of course we'll
assume it but would it be nice to know
that is this a great society which
allows innocence to be butchered as
offal was with no concern no interest
which allows the guilty the murderers to
walk the streets knowing without any
question who they are knowing what
happened is this a great society is it a
great society which causes blackouts in
new centers like New York when there's a
development in the case which pressures
governor's so that if the District
Attorney of New Orleans who is
prosecuting the case trying to get a man
back from Ohio or Texas or Missouri or
Iowa so that he can never get him back
when prior to that point expeditions
were automatic is it's a Great Society
which monitors your phone you haven't
had a slightest bit of curiosity about
you this is not a great society this is
a dangerous society a society which
despite the lip service to populism and
the lip service to good things and
material things and economic things is
so morally threadbare that the futures
of your children are in danger it raises
the question as to whether the
Constitution itself might not
accidentally have been burned to a crisp
by now so now we come to you of the
press who are here tonight because
the real need is for your health to be
one about it the press of America has
been apathetic the press has been
consumed with inertia since the
assassination the questions the press
asks about me and raises about me are a
very healthy thing if I can't survive it
then I'm in the wrong business I don't
care what questions they raise about the
case because I know we can win our cases
that's the way it should be and if the
press has any doubts about me if they
think I'm politically ambitious if they
really think that I would charge
somebody for some kind of personal gain
and they should raise the question
that's fine because I'll survive it and
I'll answer the question but why don't
they ask these questions that demand to
be asked of the President of the United
States have we reached a point where the
president is so powerful that the press
is afraid to ask him
President Johnson why cannot we see
these hidden files are they so afraid of
the golden eagle that is the
presidential emblem so afraid of the
power now massed in Washington that we
have become a fascist country it's
really up to you from now on because
I've already had an example and so view
of what can happen after the convictions
we obtained the major conviction already
conviction of Dean Andrews for perjury
in connection with this case and most of
the country doesn't even know the
details yet it just didn't get it up and
it might well be the same when other
convictions occurred so America ever
needed the press it needs the press
today and let me tell you something
about that the most important thing that
this country has ever given the world
and the thing for which we will be
remembered is
- we took a big step forward from all
the rest of history in connection with
the concern of government for the rights
of individuals but these rights don't
mean anything unless the press is
concerned what rights for example did
Lee Oswald have in Dallas he had no
rights he saw no lawyers
he had no rights at all he was framed by
people in law enforcement
the US government helped he had no
rights at all but if the press had been
concerned enough in Dallas they would
not have dared to do this and if the
first in this country can just get
concerned about what the present
administration is doing about the lie
that is being perpetrated about the fact
that the man who killed Jack Kennedy are
still loose and untouched by justice
then the President cannot continue to
get away with turning his back on the
problem and that's what he's doing
and he must not be allowed to do it
because this country does not belong to
him it belongs to you
and 200 million men and women and
children so let me just say this that if
you ever wait for an opportunity to do
something for your profession and do
something for your country then you have
such an opportunity as no one that's had
since being a reporter became a
profession if you can just get
interested if you can only get
interested because your country needs
you now as it never has before
[Applause]
[Laughter]
following mr. Garrison's speech there
was a question-and-answer period
most of those attending the banquet were
newsmen and hence this resembled an
informal press conference the first
question to mr. garrison was do you
believe that anyone within the framework
of the United States government helped
plot the assassination why did the
government hide evidence and third who
really killed Jack Kennedy first of all
are involved number of them have been
identified secondly in my judgment the
reason that the United States government
meaning the present administration and
the Johnsons administration is
obstructing the any investigation any
further investigation the reason they
concealed the two facts are to be blunt
about it in order to protect the
individuals involved with the
assassination of John Kennedy the third
question that involves names and I
cannot possibly go into that at this
time ladies and gentlemen let me add
that mr. garrison one of the main
mention that he cannot answer any
questions regarding clay Shaw's trial
which should become
the next question was why the tacit
approval of the Kennedy family of the
Warren Commission report I don't want to
be unfair senator Kennedy and I think if
I try to speculate without having the
fact I would be unfair for example the
comments which I made about the
president for comment made as a result
of specific facts that we had after
months of forbearance yes I'm curious
too I don't understand next garrison was
asked how did you stumble onto the story
I didn't mean it nothing way what I
meant was we stumbled onto the case
itself if we had not got curious about
the on trip the David Ferrie made by
Vincent's under storm all night to go
ice-skating in Houston and the fact that
he did not go ice-skating there if we
had not seen that and to be curious
about it we would not have found our way
into the whole thing because they had
cut off an insulation of every possible
conic
we just happened to find ourselves in
the intermediate area right below the
level of the sponsors or financers and
right above the level of what you might
call the operating level the people who
pull the trigger and we stumbled into it
by luck that's what I'm not a skill but
because we didn't let go and we kept on
digging
we had other later on and the other
individuals what I now the other part if
you mean with regard to the fact that I
now bring up for the first time the fact
that is very plain to us that the
President of the United States bears the
responses
the total responsibility for the
obstruction and concealment of a
development of the truth in this matter
is something that we have known for
months but I wanted to lean over
backwards because it's so easy to say it
and I'm sure there will be replies that
this is a rice statement but there's no
question about it it's the executive
order which comes from president that
postpone your seeing the evidence for 75
years but we wanted to lean over
backwards and we have and we've tried to
get cooperation let's become hopeless I
don't want to criticize Ramsey Clark I
think he's a harmless sort of little
fellow who had no idea what happened but
well his father was on the Supreme Court
so he's had the Justice Department but
the responsibility is in the president's
lap and the time has come to bring it
out but we have known that for someone
another question mr. garrison you made
the statement that the main function of
the Warren Commission was to conceal the
right-wing militants who killed the
president the Warren Commission was
appointed by President Johnson and
composed of people such as Chief Justice
Warren whom certain right-wing groups
have attacked and asked for his removal
is it your charge that the president
appointed him among others in order to
conceal the facts of the assassination
[Music]
the assassination that this was his
precise concern at the time I think the
makeup of the Commission makes it quite
evident that there was at that time a
concern about the involvement of
individuals connected with the CIA and
it might well be that during the course
of the inquiry they then became
protective of the status quo the Dallas
police scenario somewhere along that
time was adopted as the official truth
but I think the essential reason for the
appointment of Chief Justice Warren was
to obtain the support of locals for the
next garrison was asked why would Chief
Justice Warren who has never been
identified as a right-winger conceal a
right-wing plot another question if you
criticize the government for concealing
evidence may we ask why you as a member
of the government will not reveal to us
the demonstrable proof that you have as
to who killed President Kennedy here is
Garrison's answer my evidence until the
case comes to trial if I reveal my
evidence to you in order to make you
happy and I love to do it I won't be
able this line of questioning continues
does that mean that you are charging the
defendant with the murder of the
President
garrison question was the CIA money that
went into the full-page ad in that
Dallas paper on the day preceding the
assassination another question what did
the president do to incur the wrath of
the right-wing
I like it what did Franklin D Roosevelt
do the right wing don't you realize with
the militant the extreme right wing felt
that they had another Franklin D
Roosevelt from their point of view in my
judgment I have to say this ahead of
time so you won't misunderstand I happen
to think that John Kennedy was a good
president and I feel very strongly about
that but from their point of view here
were their concerns first of all it was
obvious that he was he was bringing to
an end the Cuban adventure bringing it
to an end and the certain certain steps
have been taken to it to read reports
moan to add a tone with Fidel Castro and
it was playing but an understanding was
being worked out whereby there would be
no more raids no more plans to take over
Cuba the same direction it was plain
that the president was bringing an end
the Cold War was becoming concerned
about the billions of dollars being
spent for the Cold War was thinking
about the possibility of trying to
understand Russia better I don't mean
that he was going to dismantle our
defenses but he was reaching for an
understanding and it's quite apparent
too that he did not intend to expand the
war in Vietnam and as far as Texas and
Texans of concern he left no doubt about
the fact that he was headed directly for
the 27 and a half percent deduction the
27 and a half percent deduction is
something very dear to some people in
Texas now that's just a few for openers
hiren note might be an order 27 and a
half percent is the oil depletion
allowance another question do you still
feel the David Ferrie possibly did not
die of natural causes and if so why and
by what method do you think Jack Ruby
met his end
mr. Garrison's answer and if you have an
[Music]
examination in the blood
including yet but it does appear to be
the likely way that was New Orleans
District Attorney James garrison
speaking to the award dinner of the
Southern California Broadcasters
Association at the Century Plaza Hotel
in Los Angeles the speech was recorded
by Paul and Shirley Everly of the Los
Angeles Free Press who have graciously
allowed us to broadcast these tapes here
production for Pacifica is by Leonard
Brown this has been little girl okay
we're here with James D Eugenio he's the
editor and publisher of Kennedy's and
king.com eye I think this is either late
67 or early 68 very early 68 it's um
it's a banquet for the Southern
California broadcaster Association at
the Century Plaza Hotel and I think it
was the LA Free Press who invited
Garrison there they had an article about
him on the front page which he refers to
in the talk when he's talking about art
the guy named art that's art cuncun our
tonkin was the owner and publisher of
the LA free press the LA Free Press was
wow look where do you begin with this in
my opinion there were two paradigms of
journalism two peaks of journalism in
the 1960s which nobody has matched since
for a glossy magazine it was Warren
Hinkle's ramparts which nobody has come
close to ever since it was killed off
for a weekly tabloid it was the LA Free
Press
not even the Village Voice in its heyday
came close to being as great as the LA
Free Press was and those were two
standards of journalism that if you
don't know about it you
look it up because it's really what made
the sixties the 60s doctor they weren't
afraid to go anywhere and this included
supporting Jim Garrison which almost
nobody did
all right after garrison was so harshly
attacked in the early part of the summer
of 1967 if you recall it was by healings
worth in Newsweek by James Phelan in The
Saturday Evening Post and then by Walter
Sheridan in his NBC special we all know
of course all three of those guys were
in or linked with each other they knew
each other quite well they worked with
each other shared and actually employed
Phelan Ainsworth was actually
infiltrated in addition Oz defense team
Phelan testified at Shaw's trial
Sheridan was in contact with the CIA and
he was getting funding from the CIA to a
local law firm down there Monroe and
lemon once that hit that three-pronged
attack most of the media turned on
garrison in fact almost all of them did
this of course led to garrison sort of
calling out the media for being so bad
on the JFK case which they were it also
led him to get more extreme in his
message like he begins his talk on this
with comparing what America has become
after the assassination of JFK and I
might say Malcolm X also alright with
Bobby Kennedy and Martin Luther King to
come by acts of fascism that if a
government can lie so blatantly about
something is important at the John F
Kennedy assassination that means that
they can basically get away with murder
you know which of course is what they
did you know and he named
a very famous article that was published
around this time I think it was in The
Saturday Evening Post but I'm not sure
Tom Braden who was masquerading as a
journalist at that time wrote an article
saying something like the title was glad
to see I a is immoral very few people
knew that Tom Braden was a former CIA
agent okay at you know when that article
was published all right they certainly
knew after it was published all right
and so garrison mentions that article
this is his beginning to really go head
to head with the Central Intelligence
Agency around this time you know he did
the same thing in his playboy interview
he then talks about the obstruction
excuse me the destruction and alteration
of several piece of evidence the lying
about caprices of evidence for example
the FBI field to find any prints on the
rifle right it's strongly suggesting
that the Dallas police put them on there
after the fact all right
he talked about a very very seldomly
mentioned witness at that time eugene
Dinkin who was in the military at that
time and he was one of the people who
actually predicted the JFK assassination
in advance along with richard case
Niguel and rose Cheramie
all right there's an article on
kennedy's in king.com about Eugene dink
and I think it's one of the better
articles that ever been written about
him so take a look tat if you don't know
if you don't know who he is he talks
about the hidden files on Oswald in the
u2 which of course is a very important
piece of evidence the CIA did not want
to let giveaway at that time and he
talks about the attempt to camouflage
Oswald being at 5:44 Camp Street and
there is one piece of evidence
the Warren Commission wanted I think
it's in volume 26 and it's the Corliss
Lamont flyer the crime against Cuba
which the FBI slipped up on and let that
into the Commission volumes but we know
do the work of other researchers like
John Newman that the FBI either whited
out references to 544 Camp Street or
they changed it to 531 Lafayette hmm
okay which is the e the other address to
that building all right so he's correct
about that now there's something I think
he's wrong about it's not his fault he's
wrong it's because the executive
sessions of the Warren Commission had
not been Declassified at this time he
says the Warren Commission didn't have
the autopsy photos and the x-rays
there's a couple of references in those
executive sessions to the fact that they
actually did the Warren Commission
itself has tried to cut they tried to
cover this up for decades you know I'm
not talking about just a few years they
tried to cover this up for decades you
know people like Arlen Specter people
like David Belen etc you know people
like John McCloy you know they
essentially lied in public about this
all right that they did not have the
photographs and x-rays but you know when
the ARB was created in the 1990s all the
executive sessions of the Warren
Commission were Declassified and there
is a reference there where John McCloy
talks about how they have a room now
where the autopsy materials are located
right now what I believe happened is I
believe that only the one commissioners
had access to those exhibits I don't
think the lawyer staff did all right I
think Gerald McKnight agrees with me on
that in his book breach of trust
all right oh and he talks about a
witness who wrote a document about a
gunshot wound to the right temple well
David mantak in his book JFK's head
wounds all right which is available I
think on Amazon in an e-book form he
lists today we have about several
witnesses because of declassified files
by the ARB about the who say they saw a
gunshot wound to the right temple one of
the better ones being Charles I think is
name is Charles Robinson who was working
for Gaulish funeral parlor and who came
to the morgue to pick up the body and he
told the House Select Committee that in
the hairline of JFK's right temple he
saw what he thought was a gunshot wound
and he filled it in with wax
hmm so yeah so you know back then there
might have been only been one witness
but today there are several to this all
right and he talks about the Russian
test and the passport oswald got in
about 24 hours that's accurate also
which of course makes us very suspicious
of oswald going to the soviet union at
the height of the Cold War and then
being allowed to come back with a
Russian wife and not only is he not
court-martialed according to the CIA
they didn't even debrief him you know
even their White Russians that were
interviewed by the Warren Commission
found this hard to believe you know the
Russians just don't do that they don't
let a guy who defected going back the
United States leave with his spouse at
the very same time you know it just
doesn't not doesn't happen you know so
it's very you know that whole subject of
Oswald and the intelligence community
there's gonna be a lot more to come out
on this all right because of some work
that Malcolm Blount has done a very good
British researcher
he sent me six packets of files on the
work that Betsy wolf had done for the
House Select Committee on trying to
figure out why Oswald's files went to
one and only one place during the
defection and they went to the wrong
place all right and an interview he did
with a guy named Pete Bagley who worked
with James Angleton I think it was his
third in command
all right behind her a Roca and there'll
be a lot more to say about this and I
think it's gonna be very very important
garrison was right about that too of
course that's what I'm trying to say but
we've come so far since he made this
speech so one way to look at him is as a
kind of pioneer on a new frontier all
right and then he I love the question he
asks at the end when do we get to see
all the evidence hmm well this is 54
years later and we still haven't seen it
all he was complaining in 67 early 68
here we are the new millennium 2018 and
Trump still delays it supposed to be all
Declassified in October and here we are
still waiting for it right you know I
mean come on how ridiculous can you
possibly get all right and then at the
end of the speech I agree that you know
Oswald's rights were violated when he
was in detention and number two where
was the press to complain about those
things for instance I don't think ghazal
was actually arraigned for the
assassination of JFK all right there's a
very long debate about this there's so
new information that's come out and you
know there's that famous interview with
Oswald when somebody was asking I think
the words were something like did you
kill President Kennedy he says no I
haven't been charged with that and the
guy comes back
and says well according to the police
you have and he has a very puzzled look
on his face you know so I think it's an
open question whether he was actually a
ring for that I'm pretty sure it was a
ring for the tippet shooting but there's
an open question and one when and where
he was arraigned you know for the for
the murder of JFK and of course he did
not have an attorney you know for though
if he was arraigned you know which he
should have had and so garrison asked
you know where was the press and also
although obviously most of the press was
backing the Warren Commission without
even reading it and then when garrison
came along they were attacking garrison
you know so that's where the press was
by the way garrison did several of these
you have one of them here but as time
went on and the funding for his
operation was becoming depleted because
he was being attacked for using local
funds you know out of his fines and fees
collection to finance his investigation
by the local papers and then the
supposed group that was gonna back him
truth and consequences faded away you
know he had to do these things he had to
travel all over the country and do these
speeches to groups like this and also to
universities and things like that too so
he wouldn't have to pay for it the
investigation himself which by the way
he did anyway so that's why he was doing
these things believe me he didn't want
to do these he'd rather be back in his
office supervising the investigation you
know but that's how he got you know he
got stuck in this situation so this is
an interesting talk I'm glad you found
it all right I imagine the Pacific
Archive right yeah definitely is all
right so I urge everybody listen to this
[Music]
this is our hidden history
you
[Music]
this is our hidden history
you